[MUSIC]
As discussed in the introduction,
INDEX MATCH
can be used to look up information in
a grid with both an X and Y variable.
We will utilize the optional
column reference
which we have previously defaulted
to one in prior exercises.
Let's look at our new data set
to get better understanding of
why this would be useful.
Our data set has names across the top,
and personal identification going down.
This would mean the names would
be an X input or column input,
and the personal identifiers would
be the Y input or row input.
In this exercise, we are looking for
personal information about Rod.
Why don't we first look up where in
the data set the information for Rod is.
We're going to start
with the MATCH formula.
So let's do =MATCH,
followed by the lookup value.
Here it is, his name.
We are going to lock this cell, because
it's the same for all the attributes.
The lookup array is a list of names
across the top in our data set.
You'll see that the name
range inserted itself.
And we will use a match type of 0,
as we're looking for an exact match.
If we hit Enter,
we find out that Rod's information is
in the fourth column of the data set.
And now we can copy and paste our
formula down the remaining attributes,
since Rod will be in the fourth column for
all answers.
Now we're going to use the MATCH formula
to look up where the eye color is,
in the personal attribute field.
We are going to search for
eye color using MATCH.
Lookup value is going to be eye color,
and our data set is going to
be the personal information.
The name range pops up, and
the MATCH type will be exact.
Ensure to lock the rows and
columns where required.
I find that many formula issues
are a result of missed cell locking.
If we copy this down for each cell,
it's telling us what position,
weight, height, sex, and
eye color are located in.
We can combine both the x and
y MATCH in an index formula to find
the corresponding x and y coordinates for
Rod's personal information.
We will do =index, and
this time we select the entire data set.
We need to select the entire data set
since, we're going to utilize both the row
and column lookup, and need the entire
range of outcomes to work with.
Let's start at B38 and select down to
I44.
I'm going to lock the data we just
selected as we've done throughout this
exercise, so
it does not shift on me when I copy it.
Now I am looking at the row number.
We already looked up the row number for
eye color in D147,
so let's input that here.
Similarly, the column number
can be found in C147.
If I close the formula,
hit Enter, we get brown.
Now, if I copy this down, we now have
Rod's eye color, sex, height, and weight.
We just created a look up
formula utilizing two variables,
however used three formulas.
Just like before, we do not need
to do this in two separate steps.
We can do this all at once
by replacing the row and
column inputs with the match formula
that we wrote in columns C and D.
Let's start by typing =index,
and select our data set,
making sure to lock it.
For the row number,
we are going to use the match
formula we were working with before.
The lookup value is going to be eye color
that is saved within the personal info,
and the match type is exact.
We close the first match with
the parenthesis, and then hit comma.
Notice that Excel is now asking us for
the column number.
We are going to do the same thing we did
before to look up Rod's column position.
We will use MATCH again,
but this time, we are looking for Rod.
This reference is anchored, so we're
going to lock both the row number and
column so it doesn't shift on us.
The lookup array is name,
and the match is exact.
We close the second match,
and then we close the index
and hit Enter.
We have an eye color of brown,
which matches the answer we got
when we did it in two parts.
If we copy this down,
we now have all of Rod-
picking up both the x and y variable.
We just built a two variable
lookup in one single formula.
Now it's your turn to
try in problem seven.
Use an INDEX MATCH MATCH to write
a single formula that will pick up
not only the personal attribute,
but also the person's name,
and find the matching information
using the same data set and formula.
Good luck.
[MUSIC]